Add Bending Mastery System and Application (#5)
Rokucraft/RokuWiki: docs/roleplay/mastery.md

# Bending Mastery

## Becoming a Master

> For a character to become a master of their element they must complete an average of 10 roleplay lessons, minimum 8, depending on their current skill level, age, and ability. A minimum of 8/10 lessons must be completed on the server. 2/10 can be in the [Roleplay Hub](https://discord.gg/tjqX25pH37) if necessary.

Reviewer: I've rephrased this a bit to be easier to read, and mentioned the application process. This sections serves as a small abstract then to give people a general overview of the system before reading the details.
```suggestion
For your character to become a master of their element, they must complete at least 8 roleplay lessons with bending instructors. The average amount of required lessons is 10, but your amount may vary depending on your character's current skill level, age, and ability.

A minimum of 8 of your character's lessons must be completed on the server. Others may be completed in the [Roleplay Hub](https://discord.gg/tjqX25pH37) if necessary.

After you have completed the necessary classes, you will be eligible to apply for mastery on the [forum](https://forum.rokucraft.com/c/roleplay-applications/mastery/16).
```

## Bending Instructors

> 
> ### Types of Instructor

Reviewer: This subheading isn't really needed
```suggestion
```

> There are two types of bending instructor:
> 
> - **Masters** have completed all lessons and have an accepted mastery application
> - **Teachers** have completed any amount of the first 5 lessons and can pass their knowledge on to others

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two types of bending instructors:

- **Teachers** have completed any amount of the first 5 lessons and can pass this knowledge on to others
- **Masters** have completed all lessons and have an accepted mastery application
```
I've reordered these to be in the order in which people actually earn those roles

### Finding an Instructor

> Players are encouraged to find bending instructors through roleplay. However, if your character cannot find one, you can look for a player with the `Instructor` tag in the Roleplay Hub and contact them about training. Bending teachers and masters can choose to have this tag if they would like to be contacted by others. You can then arrange to have your characters meet in a realistic way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You are encouraged to find bending instructors through roleplay. However, if your character cannot find one, you can look for a player with the `Instructor` role in the Roleplay Hub and contact them about training. Bending teachers and masters can choose to have this tag if they would like to be contacted by others. You can then arrange to have your characters meet in a realistic way.
```

> ### Role of Instructors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Responsibilities of Instructors
```

> - Follow the lesson structure when teaching and determine if a character will need more or less training based on skill level and progress shown. The structure is flexible depending on teaching style and the student's interests. 
> - Use the `#instructors` channel in the Roleplay Hub to share training ideas, more detailed guides to specific lessons, and communicate students' progress.
> - When a student applies for mastery, reply to the application to confirm which lessons you have taught them and if you think they are ready to be a master.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Follow the lesson structure when teaching and determine if a character will need more or less training based on skill level and progress shown. The lesson structure is flexible depending on teaching style and the student's interests. 
- Use the `#instructors` channel in the Roleplay Hub to share training ideas, more detailed guides to specific lessons, and communicate students' progress with other instructors.
- Reply to their students' applications to confirm which lessons they have taught, and whether they think the student is ready to be a master.
```

> ## Lesson Structure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Lessons
```

> The first 5 lessons can be completed with a master *or* teacher *or* mix of both. The last 5 lessons must be completed with a master. [Water](https://avatar.fandom.com/wiki/Waterbending#Waterbending_master_level), [Earth](https://avatar.fandom.com/wiki/Earthbending#Earthbending_master_level), and [Fire](https://avatar.fandom.com/wiki/Firebending#Firebending_master_level) have moves classed as master level. Students can choose to learn two of these as part of their mastery training. Along with the outlines below, lessons can include sparring, training with other students, or visiting locations in order to learn a specific skill. Be creative!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your character's first 5 lessons can be completed with a teacher, master, or mix of both. The remaining lessons **must** be completed with a master. 

[Water](https://avatar.fandom.com/wiki/Waterbending#Waterbending_master_level), [Earth](https://avatar.fandom.com/wiki/Earthbending#Earthbending_master_level), and [Fire](https://avatar.fandom.com/wiki/Firebending#Firebending_master_level) have moves classed as master level. Students can choose to learn two of these as part of their mastery training. Along with the outlines below, lessons can include sparring, training with other students, or visiting locations in order to learn a specific skill. Be creative!
```

> The first 5 lessons can be completed with a master *or* teacher *or* mix of both. The remaining lessons must be completed with a master. [Water](https://avatar.fandom.com/wiki/Waterbending#Waterbending_master_level), [Earth](https://avatar.fandom.com/wiki/Earthbending#Earthbending_master_level), and [Fire](https://avatar.fandom.com/wiki/Firebending#Firebending_master_level) have moves classed as master level. Students can choose to learn two of these as part of their mastery training. Along with the outlines below, lessons can include sparring, training with other students, or visiting locations in order to learn a specific skill. Be creative!

Reviewer: One of my suggestions got marked as outdated because the line changed during my review, here it is again:
```suggestion
Your character's first 5 lessons can be completed with a teacher, master, or mix of both. The remaining lessons **must** be completed with a master. 
[Water](https://avatar.fandom.com/wiki/Waterbending#Waterbending_master_level), [Earth](https://avatar.fandom.com/wiki/Earthbending#Earthbending_master_level), and [Fire](https://avatar.fandom.com/wiki/Firebending#Firebending_master_level) have moves classed as master level. Students can choose to learn two of these as part of their mastery training. Along with the outlines below, lessons can include sparring, training with other students, or visiting locations in order to learn a specific skill. Be creative!
```

### Water

> Waterbending students can choose to follow either the traditional, or healing path to mastery. If choosing the healing path, offensive lessons will be replaced by healing lessons. For practical waterbending or history and culture, the lesson can relate specifically to the character's Clan if applicable.

Reviewer: I had to read this sentence twice to understand, I stumbled over the comma. I think removing the comma makes it clearer?
```suggestion
Waterbending students can choose to follow either the traditional or healing path to mastery. If choosing the healing path, offensive lessons will be replaced by healing lessons. For practical waterbending or history and culture, the lesson can relate specifically to the character's Clan if applicable.
```

??? info "Lesson Structure"

    1. Basics
    2. Movement
    3. Temperature control
    4. Offensive skills 1 *or* Healing 1
    5. Defensive skills 1
    6. Practical waterbending or history and culture
    7. Offensive skills 2 *or* Healing 2
    8. Defensive skills 2
    9. Master move 1
    10. Master move 2

### Earth

??? info "Lesson Structure"

    1. Strength and stability
    2. Beginner offence and defence
    3. History and culture
    4. Intermediate offence
    5. Intermediate defence
    6. Practical earthbending
    7. Advanced offence
    8. Advanced defence
    9. Master move 1
    10. Master move 2

### Fire

??? info "Lesson Structure"

    1. Breathing and heat
    2. Beginner offence and defence
    3. History and culture
    4. Intermediate offence and defence
    5. Energy, drive, and control
    6. Practical firebending
    7. Advanced offence
    8. Advanced defence
    9. Master move 1
    10. Master move 2

### Air

> Air master is an honourary position held by the most accomplished monks and nuns. It is achieved through intense training and hard work. Being a master is a gateway to more possibilities and opportunities. After completing the required lessons, there is a final trial. Students who pass this trial will receive their air mastery tattoos and be presented at a special ceremony by other air masters. Air masters must take on vows to teach others and respect the ways of masters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Air Master is an honourary position held by the most accomplished monks and nuns. It is achieved through intense training and hard work. Being a master is a gateway to more possibilities and opportunities. After completing the required lessons, there is a final trial. Students who pass this trial will receive their air mastery tattoos and be presented at a special ceremony by other air masters. Air masters must take on vows to teach others and respect the ways of masters.
```
Capitalizing the M to make it clear that Air Master is the title. Alternatively, you could also write *Air master* in italics to make that clear, though I prefer the former.

??? info "Lesson Structure"

    1. Basics
    2. Culture and traditions
    3. Balance
    4. History
    5. Spiritual
    6. Offensive
    7. Defensive
    8. Meditation
    9. Sparring
    10. Advanced
    11. Final test

> ## Apply
> 
> Once you have completed your lessons, fill out the mastery application on the Roleplay Applications section of the [forum](https://forum.rokucraft.com/c/roleplay-applications/mastery/16). You can view the application template below. Your bending instructors will be required to vouch for you on your application. Nation Leaders are responsible for reviewing the applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Applications

Once you have completed your lessons, you may fill out the mastery application on the [forum](https://forum.rokucraft.com/c/roleplay-applications/mastery/16). Your bending instructors will be required to reply to your application to confirm which lessons they have taught you, and state whether or not they believe you are ready to be a master. 

Nation Leaders are responsible for reviewing these applications, and will make the final decision on your status as master.
```

> ??? note "Mastery Application Template"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
??? example "Mastery Application Template"
```

    <!-- Write your response here -->

    > A devastating earthquake has struck a city in the cold, dead of night, causing widespread destruction and leaving many people injured. Many buildings have become unstable or collapsed altogether, trapping citizens and creating obstacles throughout the city. The air is thick with dust that creates a hazy atmosphere, obscuring visibility and making it hard to assess the extent of the damage. Fires have broken out in one area of the city. As the dust settles and the injured cry out for help, you emerge from where you had taken shelter...

    <!-- Write your response here -->

    <!-- Your instructors must reply to this post to vouch for you. Please ask them to do this. -->
    ```

> * * *

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
